Settlement Agreement
John-Michael Kuczynski (“Plaintiff”) and Carolina Reid (“Defendant”) (collectively the “Parties”) enter into this Settlement Agreement.
Plaintiff has brought a claim in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland (the “Court”), case number C-15-CV-25-001897 (the “Civil Action”). In the Civil Action, Plaintiff sought to compel disclosure of certain information by Defendant in her capacity as Trustee of the Jane Casey Hughes Revocable Trust (the “Trust”). Defendant has since disclosed certain information about the Trust to Plaintiff. Plaintiff and Defendant now wish to fully resolve the Civil Action, including without limitation any claim either Party may have for attorney fees or other expenses. Therefore, the Parties agree as follows.
1.	Dismissal and Withdrawal of Motions. Within three business days of this Settlement Agreement’s effective date, the parties shall file a joint stipulation:
a.	dismissing the Civil Action with prejudice under Maryland Rule 2-506(a); and
b.	withdrawing all pending requests for sanctions, attorney fees, or other expenses, whether based on Maryland Rule 1-341 or any other authority, including without limitation any such requests in Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss Complaint and for Appropriate Relief of July 7, 2025, Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion to Dismiss of July 22, 2025, Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint and for Appropriate Relief of August 5, 2025, and Defendant’s Opposition to Motion for Sanctions of August 20, 2025 (collectively the “Sanctions Requests”).
2.	Release.
a.	Plaintiff hereby releases Defendant from any and all claims or causes of action, of which Plaintiff knew or reasonably should have known as of this Settlement Agreement’s effective date, arising from Defendant’s administration of the Trust 
b.	The Parties hereby release each other from any and all claims they may have against each other for attorney fees or any other expenses, including without limitation any claim based in whole or in part on Maryland Rule 1-341 and any claims embodied in the Sanctions Requests.
c.	The Parties hereby waive any appeal of any order, decision, ruling, or judgment in the Civil Action up to and including this Settlement Agreement’s effective date.
3.	Enforcement by Motion. Either Party may enforce this Settlement Agreement by motion in the Civil Action.
4.	Choice of Law. This Settlement Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Maryland.
5.	No Admission of Liability. The Parties’ entrance into this Settlement Agreement does not constitute an admission of liability by either Party.
6.	Execution and Effective Date. This Settlement Agreement may be executed in counterparts and shall become effective when each Party has delivered its signed copy to each other Party. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery occurs on the earlier of the dates on which the Party (a) electronically transmits its executed counterpart, or (b) puts its executed counterpart out of its possession.
7.	Amendments. This Settlement Agreement may be amended only by a writing signed by both Parties.
8.	Assignment. Neither of the Parties may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Settlement Agreement without the consent of the other Party. Plaintiff warrants that he has not assigned, pledged, or otherwise sold or transferred any right, title, interest, or claim that he may have in connection with the Civil Action or his potential recovery therefrom.
9.	Successors. Each of the Parties’ rights and obligations under this Settlement Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of that party’s successors, heirs, and assigns.
10.	Cooperation. The Parties shall reasonably and in good faith cooperate with one another’s performance of the obligations set forth in this Settlement Agreement.
11.	Notices. The Parties consent to receive any notices related to this Settlement Agreement or the enforcement thereof via email at the following addresses:
d.	If to Plaintiff: jarrett@colbylawoffice.com.
e.	If to Defendant: Meghan.McCulloch@offitkurman.com.
12.	Integration. This Settlement Agreement constitutes the entire and completely integrated agreement between the Parties and supersedes any prior written or oral agreements concerning the subject matter of this Settlement Agreement. No prior drafts of this Settlement Agreement or extrinsic statements by the Parties or their representatives shall be deemed relevant to determining the Parties’ intent or this Settlement Agreement’s meaning.
13.	Severability. If any provision or part of this Settlement Agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, only that particular provision or part so found, and not the entire Settlement Agreement, shall be inoperative, unless enforcement of the remaining provisions would be absurd or manifestly unjust.
14.	Factual Representations. In deciding to enter into this Settlement Agreement, no Party has relied on any factual representations by any other Party, other than the representations expressly made herein.
15.	No Construction Against Drafter. The Parties acknowledge that this Settlement Agreement and all the terms and conditions contained herein have been fully reviewed and negotiated by the Parties, and that each of the Parties has had an adequate opportunity to consult with legal counsel about this Settlement Agreement. If an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this Settlement Agreement is to be construed as if the Parties had drafted it jointly, as opposed to being construed against a party because it drafted one or more provisions of this Settlement Agreement.
16.	Headings. Headings in this Settlement Agreement, including any underlined phrase at the beginning of any paragraph, are for ease of reference only and shall not be construed to affect the meaning of this Settlement Agreement.
17.	Attorneys. Where this Settlement Agreement provides that a Party may or must perform a certain act, that act may be performed by the Party or by the Party’s attorney.



							
John-Michael Kuczynski		Date



							
Carolina Reid				Date
