We obviously acquire a great deal of knowledge through “sense-perception” (i.e., through sight, hearing, touch, and so forth). According to a doctrine known as “empiricism,” all knowledge is derived from sense-perception.
According to a view known as “rationalism,” some knowledge is acquired entirely through the use of one’s ability to reason.
Rationalists almost never hold that no knowledge is acquired through sense-perception. They hold only that reason, as opposed to sense-perception, is the vehicle through which some knowledge is acquired.
Rationalists typically hold that knowledge acquired in this way is very important—it isn’t trivial.
Some hold the view that there is knowledge that is acquired neither through the senses nor through reason. I don’t wish to dismiss this view. Maybe it’s correct. But there is an apparent problem with it. Any case of knowledge is a case of justified true belief. Given a belief that isn’t acquired through the senses or through reasoning, the question arises: what could possibly justify it? And there’s no obvious answer.
In any case, in this chapter, it will be assumed, if only to simplify exposition, that the only viable sources of knowledge are reason and the senses and, therefore, that the only viable options for epistemologists are rationalism and empiricism. But I wish to stress that I am genuinely open on the question of whether there is non-perceptual, non-rational knowledge. (I’m inclined to think that there is.)
Those who believe that there exist non-spatiotemporal entities are necessarily rationalists. Give or take a few nuances, empiricism is the view that you don’t know it if you don’t see it. We see property-instances, but not properties themselves. Therefore, empiricists either deny the existence of properties themselves or they hold that properties are identical spatiotemporal entities. Those who take the latter view are forced to view properties as being composed of their own instances; so the property of being wet is identical with some object composed of all wet things, or some such. Therefore, empiricists don’t believe in uninstantiated properties. Therefore, anyone who does believe in such properties, or who believes that properties are not spatiotemporal entities, is a rationalist.
Those who believe that properties are non-spatiotemporal are Platonists. Therefore Platonists are rationalists. A Platonic metaphysics requires a rationalist epistemology. Plato himself accepted a very extreme form of rationalism.
Being one that has deep roots in common sense, empiricism is a very old doctrine. But empiricism was first rigorously developed by John Locke (1632–1704), George Berkeley (1685–1753), and David Hume (1711–1776). The doctrines put forth by these authors form the basis of modern philosophy. Hume’s beliefs about causality and inductive inference are outgrowths of his empiricism. These views are thoroughly examined in Chapters 12 and 17.
Berkeley’s belief that objects are identical with our perceptions of them is an outgrowth of his empiricism. Berkeley’s ingenious arguments for this outrageous doctrine are examined later in this chapter.
John Locke’s plausible position that universals are “the workmanship of the understanding”—that we create them, so as to make sense of the world—is a derivative of his empiricism. That doctrine is examined in the present chapter. (It is also examined in Chapter 2.)
The first great rationalist was Plato (428 B.C.–348 B.C.). (Plato’s views are defended in Chapter 2.) Other rationalists are: Augustine (354–430), Descartes (1596–1650), Leibniz (1646–1716), and Gottlob Frege (1848–1925).
 
The first great empiricist was Aristotle (384 B.C.–322 B.C.), whose views, along with Plato’s, are also considered in Chapter 2. Other empiricists are J.S. Mill (1806–1873), Rudolph Carnap (1891–1970), and W.V.O. Quine (1908–2000).
In this chapter, we will find that empiricism is not in its strictest form a defensible doctrine and that, consequently, at least some knowledge has a non-perceptual basis.
There are, as we will see, two important corollaries. First, many commonsense-based views about the internal (psychological) and external (physical) worlds must be jettisoned. Second, sober scientific methodology actually demands an acceptance of principles that would strike common sense as decidedly unscientific. We will see that many concepts that cannot be adequately understood along strictly empiricist lines can nonetheless be correctly understood only interms of what empiricism has to say about them.
