Do we think in language? No. But, before we can say why, there are two very different versions of the view that we think in language.
Version #1: English speakers think in English; Albanian speakers think in Albanian; etc. In general, people think in the natural languages that they learn.  (A “natural language” is one that organically arises through human interactions. So English, Spanish, Arabic, Chinese, etc. are natural languages. A non-natural or “artificial” language would be one that people invent—for example, computer-programmers invent languages to serve their special needs, and so do mathematicians and philosophers. Philosophers invent special notations because natural languages often obscure important features of the logical structure of the meanings that their sentences express.)
Version #2: We think in an innately known code, a “language of thought.” So although we think in sentences, those sentences don’t belong to English or Spanish (etc.) but rather to some system of symbolism that is hard-wired into us from birth. 
 
3.0	Why version #1 is wrong
Do English speakers think in English, Spanish speakers in Spanish, etc.? No. (We will find that some of the arguments against Version #1 also apply to Version #2.)
3.1	First reason
We can obviously have thoughts that we are incapable of putting into words. This shows that we grasp those thoughts in some way other than by grasping the English sentences that express them. Also, there are occasions where, although we can put into words what we are thinking, doing so requires great effort: we have to think long and hard about which words to use. This shows that thinking is often a prerequisite to using language, which in turn shows that at least some thinking is non-linguistic.
Astonishingly, many authors (e.g., Ludwig Wittgenstein, Simon Blackburn, John McDowell) deny that we know anything that we can’t readily articulate. “If you can’t say it, you don’t know it,” they say. This presupposes that what we believe is expressed only in the words we utter. But that’s not the case. A given person’s beliefs can be expressed in many ways, and many of them don’t depend on that person’s being able to use words. A person’s knowledge of the differences between x and y may be expressed in that person’s drawings of x and y; or it may be expressed in that person’s movements while he is in the vicinity of x and y; or it may be expressed in some other non-linguistic manner.
The way that authors such as Blackburn, McDowell, Wittgenstein respond to this is to say that no bona fide knowledge is involved in my painting things accurately—that what is involved is a kind of pseudo-knowledge. This is obviously false. It also overlooks the fact that, but for this “pseudo-knowledge,” we couldn’t know anything about language, since it is only through our ability to differentiate noises, ink-marks, etc., on the basis of their perceptible properties that we can learn, or use, language.
3.2	Second reason
Some kinds of information (e.g., visual information) seem inherently incapable of being fully expressed by sentences of English or of any other natural language. Also, sentences have very different structures from pictures, even when the sentences and the pictures overlap in content. A visual perception of a man wearing a leather jacket has a very different structure from any sentence that describes that experience. For example, such a sentence decomposes into a finite number of distinct parts (words), whereas the sense-perception does not so decompose. (Sentences are digital structures, meaning that they consist of discrete entities. Sense-perceptions are analogue structures, meaning that they don’t.)
Also, any sentence must be interpreted to be understood. To understand the sentence “there is a man wearing a leather jacket over there,” you must know the relevant semantic rule (i.e., you must know the rules that assign meaning to that sentence). But you don’t have to interpret a visual perception, at least not in the same way. Perceptions are “self-interpreting” in a way that sentences are not. 
3.3	Third reason
In order to learn a language, one must already be able to think. To learn English is to learn that certain sounds have certain meanings; and in order to be able to do this, you already have to be able to synthesize information—to make judgments, on the basis of experience, as to what sounds have what meanings. So knowledge of a language presupposes the ability to think.
3.4	Fourth reason
Different sentences can have the same meaning, and a single sentence can have multiple meanings.
 
What you think when you think that Bob loves Mary is identical with what you think when you think that Mary is loved by Bob. But the sentence “Bob loves Mary” is different from the sentence “Mary is loved by Bob,” even though they mean the same thing. So if you thought in English sentences, then the belief you’d have by virtue of accepting the sentence “Bob loves Mary” would be totally different from the belief you’d have by virtue of accepting the sentence “Mary is loved by Bob.” But the belief you have in virtue of accepting the one sentence is identical with the belief you have in virtue of accepting the other.
Also, if you thought in language, you couldn’t disambiguate ambiguous sentences. If your thinking Bob is dumb (i.e., unintelligent) were identical with there being an occurrence in your mind of the sentence “Bob is dumb,” then your thinking Bob is dumb (i.e., he can’t speak) would be identical with there being an occurrence in your mind of that same sentence g